# Building Application using the Web API Template

## Project Architecture

* Connected Services : Basically used to publish or host the Web APIs
* Dependencies : All the References, sdk, dll, nuget files are placed
* wwwroot : For Static files. e.g, html, css and JS files
* controllers : CRUD Data
* appsettings.json : connection string
* program.cs : Main method builds the Webhost and run the application.
* startup : Used by the Program.cs to run the Application
* ConfigureServices : This method gets called by the runtime. Use this method to add services to the container.

* Configure : Use the service added in "ConfigureServices"

## Rest and DB Operation

* Post <-> CREATE
* GET <-> READ
* PUT <-> UPDATE
* DELETE <-> DELETE

## Returning Status Code

* When we are using conventional return type, status codes are not returned. e.g, 

```C#
IEnumerable<ClassName>
```

* To Return status code, the method should be action

```C#
public IActionResult Get()
        {
            //return Ok(products);
            return StatusCode(StatusCodes.Status201Created);
        }
```

## Content Negotiation

* Content negotiation occurs when the client specifies an Accept header. The default format used by ASP.NET Core is JSON.

* Once the List / Data is generated by the controller, the Data is handed over to the Web Api Pipeline.

* Web API Pipeline looks into the accept headers, and Web Api uses the appropriate formatters to format data.(JSON /XML Formatter)

* Formatters are also called the media type formatters are the classes.

## Custom Methods : Multiple Methods with same Signatures

* It leads to Exception

* To Avoid Such scenario, the methods can be decorated with requred Http Attributes and appropriate Name for the the method

## Validation

* 
